[Music]
you pay for a gym membership and walk in
confident as can be and when the front
desk person asks you if you know how to
work the machines you proudly say of
course seconds later uh-oh you realize
you could have used some help but you're
too shy to ask for it sound familiar
in that case listen up doing certain
exercises wrong isn't just useless it
can injure you number one squats if you
do them properly squats are a perfect
exercise that works out your entire
lower body puts muscle on your legs and
helps with posture the most common
mistakes while doing squats are rounding
your back going only halfway down rising
onto your toes and caving in your knees
to avoid all of these try to practice
the proper form keep your back in a
neutral position with your shoulders
back your chest up and your feet
shoulder-width apart
turned out at 45 degrees as you go down
work your core and bum muscles and keep
the weight on your heels as if you were
sitting back into a chair keep your arms
straight and in front of your stomach
when you're doing it right your knees
will push outward and your back will
stay straight if you want to add weights
to it use lighter ones first and
increase them as you gain strength
number two leg press the leg press seems
like a rather simple machine that works
out glutes and thighs but if you're
using it wrong it won't do you any good
avoid going too deep with your knees
from the start since this can injure
your lower back it's important to keep
your legs bent at 90 degrees and don't
lock your knees as you straighten them a
lot of people ignore their heel position
and let them slide off the edge of the
platform don't make this mistake and
keep them on the sled to keep your
balance and avoid unnecessary pressure
on your needs also only load a weight
you can work with you won't benefit
from shallow reps number three front and
lateral shoulder races the most common
mistake with shoulder raises is
believing that the higher you go with
the weights the more effective the
exercise will be it's wrong and your
risk straining your muscles if you do
that instead lift the weights to the
height of your shoulders keeping your
arms slightly forward this way you won't
contract the shoulder blades back your
pinkie finger should be a little higher
than the others during the exercise as
for your feet they should be at
shoulder-width with knees slightly bent
number four treadmill cardio is an
important part of any workout routine
and treadmill training is a perfect way
of doing it when you're on the treadmill
avoid the temptation of holding onto the
handrails been there done that
it makes running easier and thus less
effective and can mess up your posture
as you hunched over the machine if you
can't run without holding on try
lowering the speed or incline level
speaking of that don't set it higher
than 8% to save your back hips and
ankles from a strain they don't deserve
and never ever jump off a machine that's
still in motion this might sound funny
and obvious but it's one of the most
widespread causes of gym injuries number
five stomach crunches anyone who wants
to get a toned belly practices crunches
if you're one of those people but aren't
seeing any results in your abdominal
muscles you just might be doing crunches
the wrong way don't tuck your chin into
your chest like many people do this
strains the deck and stay closer to the
floor about 3 inches off the mat should
be fine take your time going slower will
help you do the exercise properly and
engage your core to the max 10 reel
crunches are better for your body than
10 not so good attempts 6 tricep dips
tricep dips won't give you the shoulder
injury that many people fear if you do
them the right way keep your torso and
butt close to the bench step or chair
your
looking out on this way you won't
overextend your shoulders it's okay to
bend your knees a bit if you can't do it
with straight legs but don't try to make
things easier by moving further from the
base go down bending at the elbow and
move back up contracting the triceps to
make them work hard
number seven roar both rowing in the
open water and on a rowing machine are
great calorie burners affecting all the
muscles in your body the right technique
is the key to success with this exercise
when you row just with your arms you're
exposing your upper body to too much
pressure and can injure your back and
shoulders try to split your efforts in a
proportion of 60% going from your legs
and the remaining 40% from your core and
arms this mental splitting of the
pressure on your body parts should help
keep you engaged sit tall on the rower
avoid slouching don't go for speed over
power make long and controlled roads
don't forget about syncing up your
rhythm with your breath it's important
for any rhythmic activity exhale through
the mouth as you go back and inhale
through the nose on reset number eight
push-ups stretching the elbows too far
out moving with your hips instead of
your whole body bending your back and
neck and going only halfway down are the
most common mistakes people make while
doing push-ups are you guilty of any of
those I am to avoid them in the future
try to keep your back straight and let
your arms do all the moving work
keep your hands parallel to your chest
on the floor your head should be a
neutral position and your move should be
slow and control when your chest reaches
the surface push up until your arms lock
out 9 bicep curls dumbbell and barbell
what's the best way to get toned arms
most people would say bicep curls
however they won't do you much good if
you curl your wrists upward while
exercising drop the weights down too
quickly or swing them up engaging your
shoulders and back instead
to give your biceps a proper workout
imagine there's a string running from
your shoulder to the weight you're
lifting that string should help you move
the weight from your hand to your
shoulder and your biceps will squeeze at
the top of that movement it's okay to
either keep your wrist straight or
somewhat loose it's just important that
you don't work and injure the wrist
joint number 10
cable triceps extensions you can do it
either with an EZ bar attachment or a
rope but in any case make sure you lock
your elbows tight to your ribs they
shouldn't be going back and forth with
the weights try not to stand too
straight during this exercise either
instead slightly bend forward to give
your body a full range of motion and a
full extension 11 chin ups pull ups
perhaps the biggest surprise on the list
pull-ups and chin-ups are the exercises
most people do wrong just because they
believe there's no way to mess them up
in fact if you're swinging your body as
you move up and down
don't brace your core and legs and flop
around you are indeed doing it wrong
your range of motion also matters so
you've got to make sure you go both low
and high enough a good starting position
is a dead hang with fully extended arms
you can keep them at shoulder width for
pull-ups and chin-ups need a narrower
grip you start with retracting the
shoulder blades then you pull hard
engaging your biceps back muscles and
elbows if you're doing chin-ups keep
your chin over the bar for pull-ups just
try to make it as high as you can to
become a pro at it you can practice on a
lat machine at first when it's too hard
to handle try jumping into a chin-up or
push-up and holding the position for as
long as you can manage then going down
slowly so were you doing any of these
exercises wrong let me know down in the
comments if you learned something new
today then give this video a like and
share it with a friend
but hey don't go have lunch with a
dumbbell just yet
we have over 2,000 cool videos for you
to check out all you have to do is pick
the left or right video click on it and
enjoy stay on the bright side of life